TELCODOCS-299-workload-partitioning (#43406)
openshift/openshift-docs: scalability_and_performance/sno-du-enabling-workload-partitioning-on-single-node-openshift.adoc

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="sno-du-enabling-workload-partitioning-on-single-node-openshift"]
= Workload partitioning on single node OpenShift
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: sno-du-enabling-workload-partitioning-on-single-node-openshift

toc::[]

In resource-constrained environments, such as single node production deployments, it is advantageous to reserve most of the CPU resources for your own workloads and configure {product-title} to run on a fixed number of CPUs within the host. In these environments, management workloads, including the OpenShift control plane, need to be configured to use fewer resources than they might by default in normal clusters. You can isolate the {product-title} services, cluster management workloads, and infrastructure pods to run on a reserved set of CPUs.

When you use workload partitioning, the CPU resources used by {product-title} for cluster management are isolated to a partitioned set of CPU resources on a single node cluster. This partitioning isolates cluster management functions to the defined number of CPUs. All cluster management functions operate solely on that `cpuset`.

> The minimum number of reserved CPUs required for the management partition for a single node cluster is four CPU Hyper threads (HTs). Inclusion of Operators or workloads outside of the set of accepted management pods requires additional CPU HTs. The set of pods that make up the baseline OpenShift installation and a set of typical add-on Operators are annotated for inclusion in the management workload partition. These pods operate normally within the minimum size `cpuset`. Any additional pods annotated for inclusion in the management workload partition require additional CPU resources to be added to that partition.

Reviewer: Be careful about plain OpenShift references. The are almost never [acceptable](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/term_glossary.adoc#openshift).

> The minimum number of reserved CPUs required for the management partition for a single node cluster is four CPU Hyper threads (HTs). Inclusion of Operators or workloads outside of the set of accepted management pods requires additional CPU HTs. The set of pods that make up the baseline OpenShift installation and a set of typical add-on Operators are annotated for inclusion in the management workload partition. These pods operate normally within the minimum size `cpuset`. Any additional pods annotated for inclusion in the management workload partition require additional CPU resources to be added to that partition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The minimum number of reserved CPUs required for the management partition for a single node cluster is four CPU Hyper threads (HTs). The set of pods that make up the baseline OpenShift installation and a set of typical add-on Operators are annotated for inclusion in the management workload partition. These pods operate normally within the minimum size `cpuset`. Inclusion of Operators or workloads outside of the set of accepted management pods requires additional CPU HTs to be added to that partition. 
```

> The set of pods that make up the baseline OpenShift installation and a set of typical add-on Operators are annotated for workload partitioning by default. These pods normally operate within the minimum size `cpuset`. Any additional pods annotated for inclusion in the management workload partition require that additional CPU resources be added to the partition.

Reviewer 2: This line is a duplicate of the second half of the one above.

Workload partitioning isolates the user workloads away from the platform workloads using the normal scheduling capabilities of Kubernetes to manage the number of pods that can be placed onto those cores, and avoids mixing cluster management workloads and user workloads.

To fully leverage workload partitioning, you must install the Performance Addon Operator and apply the performance profile:

* Workload partitioning pins the {product-title} infrastructure pods to a defined `cpuset`.

> * The Performance Addon Operator performance profile pins the os/systemd services to a defined `cpuset`.

Reviewer: Per the ISG:
> Avoid using forward slashes (/) and backslashes () in most text

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="sno-du-enabling-workload-partitioning-on-single-node-openshift"]
= Workload partitioning on single node OpenShift
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: sno-du-enabling-workload-partitioning-on-single-node-openshift

toc::[]

In resource-constrained environments, such as single node production deployments, it is advantageous to reserve most of the CPU resources for your own workloads and configure OpenShift to run on a fixed number of CPUs within the host. In these environments, management workloads, including the OpenShift control plane, need to be configured to
use fewer resources than they might by default in normal clusters.

You can isolate the {product-title} services, cluster management workloads, and infrastructure pods to run on a reserved set of CPUs. This is useful for resource-constrained environments, such as a single node cluster, where you want to reserve most of the CPU resources for user workloads and configure {product-title} to run on a fixed number of CPUs within the host.

> When you use workload partitioning, the CPU resources used by {product-title} for cluster management are isolated to a partitioned set of CPU resources on a single node cluster. This partitioning isolates cluster management functions to the defined number of CPUs. All cluster management functions operate solely on that `cpuset`.

Reviewer: This is actually an ISG requirement to improve translation and needs to be fixed throughout. See the Programming elements > Keywords section.

Workload partitioning isolates the workloads away from the platform workloads using the normal scheduling capabilities of Kubernetes to manage the number of pods that can be placed onto those cores, and avoids mixing cluster management workloads and user workloads.

To fully leverage workload partitioning, you must install the Performance Addon Operator and apply the performance profile:

* Workload partitioning pins the {product-title} infrastructure pods to a defined `cpuset`.
* The Performance Addon Operator performance profile pins the os/systemd services to a defined `cpuset`.
* This `cpuset` should match.

The concept of cluster management workloads is flexible and can encompass:

* All {product-title} core components necessary to run the cluster.

* Any add-on Operators necessary to make up the platform as defined by the customer.

* Operators or other components from third-party vendors that the customer deems as management rather than operational.

> ** For the DU RAN use case, a designated set of Operators is defined. Anything beyond that requires increasing the default number of CPUs for workload partitioning.

Reviewer 2: I still think that this list implies too much flexibility for the customer. For the "management" workload partition the set of content is pre-defined by us and if the user adds anything to it they would need to increase the number of cores to support it. I would remove lines 30-38 and add to lines 17-18 the following text:

> The set of pods which make up the baseline OpenShift installation and a set of typical add-on operators are annotated for inclusion in the management workload partition. These pods will operate normally within the minimum size cpuset. Any additional pods annotated for inclusion in the management workload partition will require that additional CPU resources be added to that partition.

In these environments, management workloads, including the OpenShift control plane, need to be configured to use fewer resources than they might by default in normal clusters.

You can isolate the {product-title} services, cluster management workloads, and infrastructure pods to run on a reserved set of CPUs. This is useful for resource-constrained environments, such as a single node cluster, where you want to reserve most of the CPU resources for user workloads and configure {product-title} to run on a fixed number of CPUs within the host.

When you use workload partitioning, the CPU resources used by {product-title} for cluster management are isolated to a partitioned set of CPU resources on a single node cluster with a DU profile applied. This falls broadly into two categories:

* Isolates cluster management functions to the defined number of CPUs. All cluster management functions operate solely on that `cpuset`.

> * Tunes the cluster configuration (with the applied DU profile) so the actual CPU usage fits within the assigned `cpuset`.

Reviewer 3: This is not accurate

The minimum number of reserved CPUs required for the management partition for a single node cluster is four CPU Hyper threads (HTs). Inclusion of Operators or workloads outside of the set of accepted management pods requires

> additional CPU HTs.

Reviewer 3: (HTs)

> Workload partitioning isolates the workloads away from the non-management workloads using the normal scheduling capabilities of Kubernetes to manage the number of pods that can be placed onto those cores, and avoids mixing cluster management workloads and user workloads.

Reviewer 3: use platform instead of non-management. The applications themselves may have management workloads.

When you use workload partitioning, the CPU resources used by {product-title} for cluster management are isolated to a partitioned set of CPU resources on a single node cluster with a DU profile applied. This falls broadly into two categories:

* Isolates cluster management functions to the defined number of CPUs. All cluster management functions operate solely on that `cpuset`.

> * Tunes the cluster configuration (with the applied DU profile) so the actual CPU usage fits within the assigned `cpuset`.

Reviewer 3: This is not accurate

The minimum number of reserved CPUs required for the management partition for a single node cluster is four CPU HTs. Inclusion of Operators or workloads outside of the set of accepted management pods requires additional CPU HTs.

Workload partitioning isolates the workloads away from the non-management workloads using the normal scheduling capabilities of Kubernetes to manage the number of pods that can be placed onto those cores, and avoids mixing cluster management workloads and user workloads.

> To fully leverage workload partitioning, you need to install the Performance Addon Operator and apply the performance profile.

Reviewer 3: - Workload partitioning pins the ocp infrastructure pods to a defined cpuset
- The PAO performance profile will pin the os/systemd services to a defined cpuset.
- This cpuset should match

The concept of cluster management workloads is flexible and can encompass:

* All {product-title} core components necessary to run the cluster.

* Any add-on Operators necessary to make up the platform as defined by the customer.

* Operators or other components from third-party vendors that the customer deems as management rather than operational.

> ** Adding management workloads might require additional CPU resources to be added to the partition.

Reviewer 3: This is too open ended. 
 
For the DU RAN use case, a designated set of operators is defined. Anything beyond that will require increasing the default number of cpus for workload partitioning.

> Workload partitioning introduces a new extended resource of `<workload-type>.workload.openshift.io/cores` for each CPU pool, workload-type, defined in the configuration file. Kubelet advertises these new resources. When workload partitioning is enabled, it represents the CPU capacity of the host, not just the CPU pool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Workload partitioning introduces a new extended resource of `<workload-type>.workload.openshift.io/cores` for each defined CPU pool (workload-type). Kubelet advertises these new resources and CPU requests by pods allocated to the pool will be accounted for within the corresponding resource rather than the typical `cpu` resource. When workload partitioning is enabled the `<workload-type>.workload.openshift.io/cores` resource allows access to the CPU capacity of the host, not just the default CPU pool.
```

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="sno-du-enabling-workload-partitioning-on-single-node-openshift"]
= Workload partitioning on single node OpenShift
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: sno-du-enabling-workload-partitioning-on-single-node-openshift

toc::[]

> In resource-constrained environments, such as single node production deployments, it is advantageous to reserve most of the CPU resources for your own workloads and configure OpenShift to run on a fixed number of CPUs within the host. A good example of this type of environment is a telecommunication service providers implementation of a Radio Access Network (RAN).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In resource-constrained environments, such as single node production deployments, it is advantageous to reserve most of the CPU resources for your own workloads and configure {product-title} to run on a fixed number of CPUs within the host. An example of this type of environment is a telecommunication service providers implementation of a Radio Access Network (RAN).
```

Author: {product-title} resolves to "OpenShift Container Platform (OCP)", not "OpenShift". No change.

When you use workload partitioning, the CPU resources used by {product-title} for cluster management are
isolated to a partitioned set of CPU resources on a single node cluster with a DU profile applied. This
falls broadly into two categories:

* Isolates cluster management functions to the defined number of CPUs. All cluster management functions operate solely on that `cpuset`.

* Tunes the cluster configuration (with the applied DU profile) so the actual CPU usage fits within the assigned `cpuset`.

The minimum number of reserved CPUs required for the management partition for a single node cluster is
four CPU HTs. Inclusion of Operators or workloads outside of the set of accepted management pods requires
additional CPU HTs.

Workload partitioning isolates the workloads away from the non-management workloads using the normal scheduling
capabilities of Kubernetes to manage the number of pods that can be placed onto those cores, and avoids mixing
cluster management workloads and user workloads.

> To fully leverage workload partitioning, you need to install the Performance Addon Operator and apply the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To fully leverage workload partitioning, you must install the Performance Addon Operator and apply the
```

performance profile.

When you use workload partitioning, the CPU resources used by {product-title} for cluster management are isolated to a partitioned set of CPU resources on a single node cluster with a DU profile applied. This falls broadly into two categories:

* Isolates cluster management functions to the defined number of CPUs. All cluster management functions operate solely on that `cpuset`.

* Tunes the cluster configuration (with the applied DU profile) so the actual CPU usage fits within the assigned `cpuset`.

The minimum number of reserved CPUs required for the management partition for a single node cluster is four CPU HTs. Inclusion of Operators or workloads outside of the set of accepted management pods requires additional CPU HTs.

Workload partitioning isolates the workloads away from the non-management workloads using the normal scheduling capabilities of Kubernetes to manage the number of pods that can be placed onto those cores, and avoids mixing cluster management workloads and user workloads.

> To fully leverage workload partitioning, you need to install the Performance Addon Operator and apply the performance profile.

Reviewer 3: +1
